One of the key members of a data
science team is a data engineer.
And so I'm gonna talk a little bit
about what are the qualifications and
skills that you might
need in a data engineer.
So what does a data engineer do?
They might do things like
build infrastructure.
So they would build out what are your
databases, the hardware for that.
Whether it's purchasing that, and
organizing it, and ordering it.
Or they might build out your system for
actually computing on that,
whether it's what servers they're gonna
buy and how they're gonna organize that.
And what software they're gonna
run on top of the database,
what software they're gonna
run on top of the server.
And then,
they manage the data storage and use.
So they might monitor how those work.
They might monitor who,
what people are using which data.
They might pull data out and
give it to somebody.
And then they might
implement production tools.
Now each of these is a different thing,
and so
you might not have one person
that does all of these things.
Certainly at the beginning,
when you're a very small organization,
you might need one person that can kind
of handle the entire data infrastructure.
And then you might get more specialized
people as you get to be a larger and
larger organization.
So the question is,
what skills do they need?
So they might need some knowledge of
what's the right hardware to be looking
for, both in terms of storage and
in terms of computing.
They might need to have some
knowledge about databases software.
They might need to know a little bit
about software for computing and
what are the different software needs
that your organization might need.
In that sense, they need to be able
to interact with the data scientists,
once you have them.
They need to be able to know what
software they need to be able to install,
what kind of data pulls that
people will frequently do.
That will all inform users of hardware
choices that they're going to be making.
And so, they also need to understand data
processing at scale, almost always now,
and if you're a data driven organization,
you're collecting a massive
amount amount of data.
So you need to be able to run at
scale those data processes and
those data prediction algorithms
that you've developed.
And then they need to understand
software engineering at the level of,
they need to know how they're gonna
interact with all these other components
of the data science team.
And so the background for data
engineers is often computer science and
computer engineering, but
they could also come from other places.
They might come from a quantitative
background with some computer science
experience that they picked up maybe in
online courses or in courses in person.
Or maybe they come from information
technology where they've actually been
involved in infrastructure building and
so forth.
Again, sort of like with
the data scientist,
you might depend on what your
organization needs a little bit,
which of these specific
backgrounds is most useful to you.
But the primary thing you're looking for
is, can they execute those jobs that
your organization needs them to execute?
Are they able to build infrastructure?
Are they able to maintain
the infrastructure that you need them to
be able to maintain?
Can they implement the data science,
or machine learning algorithms, or
statistical experiments, at scale for
your organization in the way
that you would like them to.
So again,
the key is to get them to be able to
solve the problems that you need now.
With a data engineer, the balance of
solutions versus software might be
a little bit different
then a data scientist.
Since this person is the person that's
going to sort of be maintaining the data
stack for you, you need them to be able to
do that in a way that's consistent with
the way that your
organization does things.
So they need to be able to have an idea
about what are the specific software and
hardware needs that your organization has.
There are a few sort of key things that
they need to know, they might need to know
how to build and manage some databases,
things like SQL, things like MongoDB.
They might also need to know how to
do things like implement or run,
things like Hadoop, which is
a parallel processing infrastructure.
Now it's not necessarily true that they
need to know any one of these buzzwords
or another.
But it is true that they need to have the
combination of skills that allow them to
build out a data infrastructure that's
supportive and that can be maintained.
So there's a couple of key
characteristics that you're looking for
when you're looking for a data engineer.
So first, again, they need to be
willing to find answers on their own.
This is again, a person that often will
be one of the few people that's solely
responsible for the data infrastructure.
And so, often they need be able to
answer those questions themselves.
They need to be able to go out and
get the quotes on the Internet.
They need to be able to ask questions and
figure out what's the right hardware,
and what's the right security
measures to be taking, and so forth.
Often they will have to do that a little
bit on their own, in the sense that,
the data engineering team is often
very specific and expert in an area.
Where it's not clear that other people
within your organization will be able to
give them a lot of advice.
They need to know a little
bit of data science.
They need to know how data is used,
how it's pulled, how it's analyzed.
So that they know how to build
the infrastructure that's useful for them.
Ideally, they'll be closely
collaborative with the data scientists,
maybe they've done that before.
And then they need to be able
to work well under pressure.
And so one reason for
that is that the data infrastructure for
an organization is often very critical.
And if it goes down then, say,
your website might go down, or
you won't be able to do any analysis, or
the organization sort of grinds to a halt.
And so having a data engineer that's
able to work well under pressure,
that's able to keep things up and
running, and keep things maintaining.
That makes good decisions about
software maintainability, and hardware
maintainability, and somebody that's
critical for your data engineering team.
And again, friendly but relentless, so
they need to be able to
interact with people.
Again, their personal communication skills
are highly undervalued but are very,
very important.
There's gonna be a lot of steps at which
a data engineer is gonna have to interact,
especially at first in a small
organization but even later on,
with data scientists, with other people
in your organization, and external units.
And so you need to be able to have
a friendly conversation with them.
And ideally,
they can explain in very simple terms
why they need to make certain decisions.
So often the decisions, especially
these days, are quite technical,
quite involved with the hardware and
software involved.
And so it's very useful if they can,
in very simple language,
explain what's going on, what the problem
is, how it's gonna be fixed, and so forth.
That can be a huge advantage
to your organization.
So that's what a little bit about,
what a data engineer is.